
                        _Adventures In Elegance_


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {decorative border}]

Adventuring with new recipes is part of what makes homemaking enjoyable.
Each discovery helps to add your special touch to the foods you serve to
family and friends.

With foods like sparkling-bright canned fruit pie fillings available to
you, it’s easy and fun to create new dishes. These fresh-fruit pie
fillings can be used in a myriad of ways right from the can ... as
toppings for cheese cakes, sauces for sundaes or ham slices or as rich
fillings for quick-to-fix pies. You’ll want to try them, too, as the
master ingredients in breads and cakes, cookies and pretty party
desserts. Sample the offerings here and then go adventuring on your own;
canned fruit pie fillings can add the magic that will set your meals
apart from the rest.

    [Illustration: {decorative border}]




                      _Heavenly Homebaked Breads_


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  _Set a mood that’s both glamorous and homey with the warm fragrance
 and taste of breads fresh from your oven. They’re wonderful any time,
                           for any occasion!_


Bonny Berry Bread

  ½ cup butter
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 egg
  ⅓ cup milk
  2 cups sifted all-purpose flour
  2 teaspoons baking powder
  ½ teaspoon salt
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) blueberry pie filling

Cream butter and sugar; beat in egg. Blend in milk. Sift together dry
ingredients and add to creamed mixture. Spread half the batter in a
greased 8x8x2-inch pan; cover with ¾ can blueberry pie filling. Spread
remaining batter over pie filling; top with remaining pie filling. Mix ½
cup sugar, ½ cup flour and ½ teaspoon cinnamon; cut in 2 tablespoons
butter. Sprinkle crumb mixture over bread. Bake at 375° for 30 to 40
minutes.


Kwicky Cherry Kolaches

  2 cans refrigerated crescent dinner rolls
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) cherry pie filling
  1 tablespoon orange juice
  1 cup sifted confectioners’ sugar

Unroll packaged refrigerator roll dough; place 1 square made up of 2
triangles on a floured surface. Roll or pat to even dough and make a
6-inch square; cut in half as marked to make 2 triangles. Place
triangles on ungreased baking sheet. Place 1 tablespoon of cherry pie
filling in the center of the triangle. Pick up the 2 long ends, fold
over filling, bringing them together at the center point to form a
square; pinch edges to seal. Repeat with remaining rolls and pie
filling. Bake at 375° for 15 minutes or until browned. Blend orange
juice and confectioners’ sugar; drizzle over the hot rolls to glaze.
Makes 16 rolls.

  Note: Make up half the recipe using one can of rolls; cover and
  refrigerate the remaining pie filling to use another day in fresh
  rolls.


Dutch Apple Coffee Cake

  1 13-ounce package coffee cake mix or hot roll mix
  1 cup water
  2 tablespoons melted butter
  1 egg, beaten
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) apple pie filling
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ cup chopped pecans

Mix coffee cake or hot roll mix according to package directions, using 1
cup water. Stir in melted butter and beaten egg. Let rise in warm spot
until double in size (about 1 hour). Spoon into a buttered 13x9x2-inch
baking pan. Spoon apple pie filling over batter. Mix sugar and cinnamon;
sprinkle over pie filling. Top with chopped pecans. Cover and place in a
warm spot until double in size (about 30 or 40 minutes). Bake in a 400°
oven for 20 to 25 minutes. Drizzle with powdered sugar icing, if
desired.




                       _Perfectly Marvelous Pies_


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  _Apple and cherry, lemon and raisin—what wonderful pies there are to
   make! Each can become a specialty of yours, a discovery in elegant
            eating that’s well worth your while to prepare._


Spicy Frozen Raisin Pie

  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) raisin pie filling
  ½ teaspoon cinnamon
  ¼ teaspoon cloves
  ¼ teaspoon nutmeg
  ½ teaspoon vanilla
  ¼ cup chopped pecans
  1 6-ounce can (⅔ cup) evaporated milk, chilled and whipped
  1 9-inch graham cracker crust

Combine pie filling, spices and vanilla; stir in pecans. Fold in whipped
evaporated milk. Mound into prepared crust. Freeze until firm.


Peanut Crunch Apple Pie

  ½ cup chunk style peanut butter
  ¼ cup soft butter or margarine
  ½ cup light brown sugar
  1 cup sifted all-purpose flour
  ¼ teaspoon salt
  2 No. 2 cans (2 cups each) apple pie filling
  1 10-inch unbaked pastry shell

Blend peanut butter, butter and brown sugar into flour and salt until
mixture is crumbly. Spoon apple pie filling into unbaked crust; sprinkle
peanut butter mixture over pie filling. Bake in a 400° oven for 30 to 35
minutes or until filling is hot and pastry browned.


Pineapple Sundae Pie

  1 package vanilla pudding mix
  2 cups milk
  2 eggs, separated
  1 package pineapple-orange flavored gelatin
  1 cup dairy sour cream
  1 9-inch baked pie shell
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) pineapple pie filling
  Whipped cream, chopped pecans and cherries

Combine vanilla pudding mix, small amount of milk and 2 egg yolks; blend
well. Add remaining milk and cook, stirring constantly until mixture
boils and thickens. Add pineapple-orange gelatin and stir until
dissolved; cool. Blend in sour cream. Beat egg whites until soft peaks
form. Fold into pudding mixture. Pour into baked pie shell. Chill. When
ready to serve, cut pie into wedges and spoon pineapple pie filling over
each. Top with whipped cream, chopped pecans and cherries.


Rainbow Cherry Pie

  1 unbaked 9-inch pie shell
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) cherry pie filling
  ¼ cup milk
  2 cups colored miniature marshmallows
  1 cup heavy cream, whipped

Fill pie shell with pie filling; bake in a 425° oven for 25 minutes.
Cool and chill. Heat milk almost to boiling. Add marshmallows and stir
until they are softened and partially melted. Cool. Fold into whipped
cream. Spread cream mixture over top of chilled pie.


Glazed Raisin-Cherry Pie

  Pastry for 2 crust pie
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) raisin pie filling
  ½ can cherry pie filling[1]
  1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ¼ cup water
  1 teaspoon butter or margarine
  1 tablespoon cornstarch
  1 tablespoon cold water
  1½ tablespoons lemon juice

Roll out pastry for bottom crust and fit into a 9-inch pie plate.
Combine pie fillings and lemon peel; spoon into pastry. Roll out
remaining pastry; slash and adjust over filling; trim and crimp edge.
Bake in a 400° oven for 30 to 35 minutes or until crust is golden brown.
Cool pie for 15 to 20 minutes. Combine sugar, water and butter in a
saucepan; heat until sugar is dissolved. Combine cornstarch and water;
add to hot mixture and heat until thickened. Stir in the lemon juice.
Spread over pie.


[1]Use remaining cherry pie filling as a sauce over ice cream, cake or
    pudding.


Swedish Apple Cake

                                                    (It’s really a pie!)

  ⅓ cup butter
  3 tablespoons sugar
  2 egg yolks
  ¾ cup sifted, enriched flour
  ⅓ cup finely chopped blanched almonds
  1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) apple pie filling
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  ⅓ cup raspberry jam
  2 egg whites
  ¼ cup sugar

Cream butter and 3 tablespoons sugar together; add egg yolks and mix
well. Add flour, almonds and lemon peel. Mix until flour is moistened.
Press onto the bottom and sides of a 9-inch pie plate. Bake in a 350°
oven for 15 minutes or until browned. Combine apple pie filling and
lemon juice; heat to boiling. Spread jam over baked crust and top with
hot apple mix. Beat egg whites until fluffy; gradually add ¼ cup sugar
and continue to beat until stiff peaks form. Spread over apples, sealing
to the edge. Bake in 350° oven for 18 minutes or until meringue is
lightly browned. Makes 9-inch pie.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]




                      _Fabulous Festive Desserts_


    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

 _Sometimes it’s the occasion that dictates the dessert; at other times
  a truly spectacular treat will be enough to turn a casual gathering
    into a party. One thing we’re certain of ... each of these gala
                        desserts is delectable!_


Peach Smoothee

  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) peach pie filling
  1 15-ounce can sweetened condensed milk
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ½ cup chopped pecans
  2 tablespoons chopped candied ginger
  1½ cups heavy cream, whipped

Beat pie filling and condensed milk together until peaches are crushed.
Mix in lemon juice, pecans and candied ginger. Fold in whipped cream.
Pour into 3 ice cube trays and freeze until firm. Makes 1½ quarts.


Mincemeat Filled Cookies

  1½ cups shortening
  ¾ cup brown sugar
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 egg
  4½ tablespoons milk
  1½ teaspoons vanilla
  4½ cups sifted all-purpose flour
  ¾ teaspoon salt
  ¾ teaspoon soda
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) mincemeat pie filling
  ½ cup orange marmalade

Cream shortening and sugars together until fluffy. Add egg, milk, and
vanilla; beat well. Sift dry ingredients together; add to creamed
mixture and mix well. Wrap dough in waxed paper and chill well. Roll ¼
of dough at a time on a floured surface to ⅛-inch thickness. Cut with a
2½-inch round cutter. Place cookies 1 inch apart on an ungreased baking
sheet. Combine pie filling and marmalade; place 1 tablespoon of mixture
on each cooky. Roll ¼ of dough as directed; cut with 2½-inch cutter and
cut a small hole in center of each cooky with a small cutter. Place over
filling, centering hole; seal edges by pressing with a fork. Bake at
375° for 10 to 12 minutes. Repeat with remaining dough and filling.
Makes 4½ dozen.


Berry Squares

  1 8-inch angel cake, cut into ½-inch squares
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) strawberry pie filling
  1 package instant lemon pudding mix
  1½ cups milk
  1 cup dairy sour cream

Put half the cake squares in a 9x9x2-inch pan. Spoon pie filling over
cake; top with remaining cake squares. Combine pudding mix, milk and
sour cream; beat until smooth. Spoon over cake. Chill several hours. Cut
into squares. Makes 9 servings.


Icy Lemon Soufflé

  1 3-oz. package lemon-flavored gelatin
  ½ cup boiling water
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) lemon pie filling
  3 egg whites, stiffly beaten
  1 cup heavy cream, whipped

Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Beat in the pie filling until smooth.
Cool. Fold in egg whites and whipped cream. Pour into a 1½ quart soufflé
dish or casserole. Chill until firm or for several hours.


Apple Fruit Cake

  ½ cup butter
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) apple pie filling
  1 cup sugar
  2 cups all-purpose flour
  2 teaspoons soda
  1 teaspoon cinnamon
  ½ teaspoon salt
  ½ teaspoon nutmeg
  ¼ teaspoon ground cloves
  1½ cups raisins
  1½ cups currants
  1 cup pecans
  1 cup mixed candied fruit
  1 cup candied cherries

Melt butter in a saucepan; add apple pie filling and sugar. Continue
heating, stirring occasionally until sugar melts; cool. Sift together
dry ingredients. Mix raisins, currants, pecans, candied fruits and
cherries with dry ingredients. Combine apple mixture and dry
ingredients. Pour into foil-lined 9-inch tube pan. Bake at 300° for 90
minutes or until done. Serve with butter sauce if desired.


                              Butter Sauce

  ¼ cup butter
  ½ cup confectioners’ sugar
  ½ cup cold water
  1½ teaspoons cornstarch
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  ½ teaspoon vinegar

Cream butter; gradually add sifted confectioners’ sugar, creaming until
fluffy. Stir cold water into cornstarch; cook and stir until clear and
thick. Stir hot mixture into butter mixture; add vanilla and vinegar.
Serve warm. Makes about ¾ cup.


Dessert Pancakes

  2 eggs
  ½ cup water
  1½ cups packaged layer or pound cake mix (1 9-ounce package)
  1 No. 2 can (2 cups) blueberry pie filling
  3 tablespoons butter
  1 teaspoon lemon juice
  1 pint vanilla ice cream

Combine eggs, water and cake mix. Beat until smooth. Drop by tablespoons
onto a hot greased griddle and bake on each side. Heat pie filling,
butter and lemon juice together. Spoon filling between and on top of
stacks of 4 pancakes each. Keep warm until serving time. Stir ice cream
to soften and spoon over pancake stacks. Makes 40 2½ inch pancakes, or
ten servings.




                          _Collector’s Corner_


    [Illustration: {decorative border}]

• Use cherry or blueberry pie fillings to top a towering angel food cake
      filled with vanilla pudding. They’re good, too, spooned over
      brownies capped with vanilla ice cream.

• Spoon peach pie filling into well-greased muffin pans with chopped
      pecans and a dot of butter. Top with a biscuit from a roll of
      refrigerated biscuits and bake as directed on package. When baked,
      let stand a few minutes before inverting onto a serving plate.

• Combine a can of pineapple pie filling with 2 cups shredded coconut
      and ¾ teaspoon curry powder. Heat and serve the fragrant sauce
      over chicken with rice.

• For a really terrific sauce, heat together a can each of mincemeat pie
      filling and drained mandarin oranges. This is good spooned over
      pound cake; superb as a sauce over pear halves centered with
      scoops of ice cream.

• Strawberry filling is perfect for valentine-shaped meringue shells.

• Heated raisin pie filling adds a glory note to everything from broiled
      ham slices to old-fashioned bread pudding.

• Apple pie filling is a shelf standby you won’t want to do without
      after you have tried it, heated with ½ cup honey and ½ cup butter,
      spooned generously over Sunday morning waffles.


There’s no doubt about it, each can of fruit pie filling you open is the
wonderful beginning to a whole new world of delightful, applause-winning
dishes. Try them and find out for yourself.

    [Illustration: {decorative border}]


                      _The Pie Filling Institute_
                       333 North Michigan Avenue
                           Chicago, Illinois
                                 60601




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Adventures in Excellence, by Anonymous

